This is the step-by-step documentation of the mini project for deploying host pool VMs for the company employees to use for their daily work.
The following are the steps taken for the creation, deployment, checking, backup setup, and documenting of the virtual machines in the host pool.
•	Into the Portal, as this is the first setup for the host pool, and although this can be created and deployed using ARM templates, I thought this setup will only take a few minutes, so I figured it is better to have more visibility.
Into Host Pool > Create new one and then fill the required fields of:
1.	Subscription & Resource Group
2.	Name & Location
3.	Preferred app group chosen is Desktop
4.	Type chosen is Pooled so FSLogix can save and maintain users’ data.
5.	Load balancing algorithm is Breadth-First meaning users to be signing to the VM with the least users.
6.	Three VMs added to the same Resource Group and Location
7.	Availability is setup to availability zone one.
8.	Trusted launch virtual machine security type
9.	Windows 11 Pro 24h2 image is chosen with the size of Standard D2as v5 with standard 64GB SSD storage.
10.	 VMs registered to Intune.
11.	 Created a specific Virtual Network where the VMs in the host pool are sitting in the same subnet.
12.	 Created the Admin account for the host pool VMs and joined them to the local domain managed for the same tenant.
13.	 Name tags setup and then to check and deploy the resource as required.

We ensured that the virtual network and domain already setup and the admin user credentials used during the host pool creation.
After the deployment is complete, we document the json file viewed for this resource for version control and future deployments.
After creation, we test the virtual machine and start them one by one, to install the necessary software and agents required by the company.
We check the Application Group, which we should have only one at this moment.
It has this description: “Desktop Application Group created through the Hostpool Wizard”.


